Add readme to inspect package (#80)
forta-network/forta-core-go: inspect/README.md

# forta-inspector-bot

Inspects run environment capabilities and limits

> Moved from [forta-network/forta-inspector-bot](forta-inspector-bot-repo)

Reviewer: Let's remove this reference. The bot repo is subject to change or removal.

# Inspection Details

## Scan API Inspection

### `scan-api.accessible`

Checks Scan APIs accessibility by establishing rpc connection and asking for current block height

`1` for accessible, `-1` for not

### `scan-api.module.eth`

The scan node should either declare `eth` module in `rpc_modules` method or it should return a valid response to
a `eth_chainId` query

`1` for supports, `-1` for not

### `scan-api.module.net`

The scan api should either declare `net` module in `rpc_modules` method or it should return a valid response to
a `net_version` query

`1` for supports, `-1` for not

### `scan-api.block-by-number.hash`

The hash of the block data retrieved from the scan API

## Trace API Inspection

### `trace-api.accessible`

Checks trace APIs accessibility by establishing rpc connection and asking for current its chain id.

`1` for accessible, `-1` for not

### `trace-api.supported`

> Only necessary for Ethereum Mainnet.

Reviewer: It's also necessary for Fantom. Let's remove this line entirely and not assume what's it available for. We can keep https://docs.forta.network/en/latest/scanner-quickstart/ as the source of truth to this.

Author: Fantom trace inspection could need some inspection code changes as well, i think have a mainnet only condition somehere

Reviewer: Yeah, great point. I had the same concern, it will become adjustable per-chain with this PR: https://github.com/forta-network/forta-node/pull/539
The inspection config uses that same "need checking" value in `forta-node`.

> Returns `1` by default on other chains

Reviewer: There is a `CheckTrace` field in inspection config. Depending on this, the inspection is able to skip checking trace functionality. But the feature is marked as failing/not available in that case. We can remove this line and keep the consumer-side expectation simple.

> Checks trace APIs accessibility by establishing rpc connection and tracing the genesis block or the trace field in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`trace_block` method is supported or not
```

provided gRPC message

> `1` for accessible, `-1` for not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`1` for supported, `-1` for not
```

Author: I feel like this part is a bit vague in general. In a typical inspection, what we should check is try to access the given trace api and check for trace support. 

However, there is a bot-usecase-specific workaround for that since it bots don't have direct access to trace api.

We may want to remove the part about "trace field in provided gRPC message"

Reviewer: I just felt like we need to say "supported" here because we mention "accessible" in a separate result field.

> We may want to remove the part about "trace field in provided gRPC message"

Yeah, we could simplify it further. If I was doing something with the results, I would expect this to tell me something is supported or not, plain and simple. I wouldn't care too much about the encapsulated complexity i.e. how it was tested - it's probably better to make that visible in the code or code comments. What do you think about this change? https://github.com/forta-network/forta-core-go/pull/80#discussion_r929895370

Author: lgtm

### `trace-api.trace-block.hash`

The hash of the block trace data retrieved from the Trace API

## Proxy Inspection

### `proxy.accessible`

Checks json-rpc proxy accessibility by establishing rpc connection and asking for current its chain id.

`1` for accessible, `-1` for not

### `proxy.chain-id`

Chain ID of the provided json-rpc

### `proxy.module.web3`

The json-rpc proxy should either declare `net` module in `rpc_modules` method or it should return a valid response to
a `net_version` query

`1` for supports, `-1` for not

### `proxy.module.eth`

The json-rpc proxy should either declare `eth` module in `rpc_modules` method or it should return a valid response to
a `eth_chainId` query

`1` for supports, `-1` for not

### `proxy.module.net`

The json-rpc proxy should either declare `net` module in `rpc_modules` method or it should return a valid response to
a `net_version` query

`1` for supports, `-1` for not

### `proxy.block-by-number.hash`

The hash of the block data retrieved from the json-rpc proxy.

### `proxy.history-support`

Returns the earliest block height that proxy supports. Lower is better.

## Network Inspection

### `network.access.outbound`

> Tries to access https://api.forta.network

Reviewer: Not doing this anymore - let's allow the consumer to have a broad understanding on this and let's remove the line.

Author: yeah looks kinda redundant since `speed.download` and `speed.upload` would be `-1` anyway. 
------
But, at some point, we could want to ditch speed tests and just go with outbound access check for a "lighter" inspection.  - since speed tests are the ones taking most of the inspection time

Reviewer: Sorry never mind, we are actually doing it. I thought I removed it.

> Tries to access https://api.forta.network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Can access https://api.forta.network
```

`1` for ok, `-1` for not accessible

### `network.speed.download`

> Runs a download performance benchmark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result of a download performance benchmark
```

Download speed in `mbps`

### `network.speed.upload`

> Runs an upload performance benchmark

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Result of an upload performance benchmark
```

Upload speed in `mbps`

## System Resources Inspection

### `resources.memory.total`

Total memory in bytes

### `resources.memory.available`

Current available memory in bytes

### `resources.storage.total`

Total storage in bytes

### `resources.storage.available`

Current available storage in bytes

### `resources.cpu.benchmark`

> The Time container needs to calculate first 1e5 prime numbers on average

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The time elapsed during the calculation of the first 1e5 prime numbers
```
The package doesn't assume that any inspection is running in a container.

Author: I agree with you about the container assumption, but the expression about it being the "average" still applies. We are using a benchmark-like mechanism for prime number calculation (executes multiple times until it converges to some value)

> Average time needed in nanoseconds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Average time in nanoseconds
```

Author: Oh, right. We do say average here. Don't mind the [comment above](https://github.com/forta-network/forta-core-go/pull/80#discussion_r929904555) - safe to remove "on average"

### `resources.cpu.usage`

Current average CPU usage percentage

## Inspection Validator

> Crosschecks submitted `*.block-by-number.hash` data in inspection results with reference json-rpc providers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Crosschecks outputted `*.block-by-number.hash` and `trace-api.trace-block.hash` data in inspection results with reference json-rpc providers
```

> ## Example Submission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example Output
```

```json
{
  "Inputs": {
    "blockNumber": 0,
    "scanApiUrl": "https://cloudflare-eth.com",
    "proxyApiUrl": "https://cloudflare-eth.com",
    "traceApiUrl": "https://cloudflare-eth.com",
    "checkTrace": false
  },
  "Metadata": {
    "proxy.block-by-number.hash": "3abe2f22edf2b463cbc13343a947be9ebbf8c16c2b50b2b90e10a199a2344f65",
    "scan-api.block-by-number.hash": "3abe2f22edf2b463cbc13343a947be9ebbf8c16c2b50b2b90e10a199a2344f65"
  },
  "Indicators": {
    "network.access.outbound": 1,
    "network.speed.download": 30.381701453262668,
    "network.speed.upload": 38.8611939336301,
    "proxy.accessible": 1,
    "proxy.chain-id": 1,
    "proxy.history-support": 5,
    "proxy.module.eth": 1,
    "proxy.module.net": 1,
    "proxy.module.web3": 1,
    "resources.cpu.benchmark": 1074533049,
    "resources.memory.available": 2090770432,
    "resources.memory.total": 16657076224,
    "resources.storage.available": 250357280768,
    "resources.storage.total": 10473631744,
    "scan-api.accessible": 1,
    "scan-api.chain-id": 1,
    "scan-api.module.eth": 1,
    "scan-api.module.net": 1,
    "trace-api.accessible": -1,
    "trace-api.supported": -1
  }
}
```

> [forta-inspector-bot-repo]: https://github.com/forta-network/forta-inspector-bot/ 

Reviewer: Same here - let's remove the reference

Author: Single answer to all repo-ref related comments: 
it felt good to have a reference to the git history, but it doesn't have a huge chunk of commits that one could need to check.  (but, yeah why not. that one is private anyway)

Author: yeah let's just remove the ref
